Reading is probably one of the most beneficial and feasible activities that a man can do. It is through reading that a person is going to be able to discover new ideas, concepts, places, and people. Some people even describe reading as a journey that starts as the opening of a page, and finishes as the last page is turned. The reason why reading is so important is because reading is relaxing to our mind and soul; it is a way for children to reach out to the world, and it improves our thinking process.

The first reason why reading is so beneficial in our lives is that a book furnishes relaxation to our mind and soul. There is something about stopping to focus on words during reading that is instantly relaxing. Maybe it is just staying still in a chair, something that does not seem to happen often in our lives. Stress is a major concern for a lot of people because of the day to day labor. Even if we have a stressful day, a book can easily distract us from our own problems. Reading has ability to calm us down, and dispense peace.

 


The second reason why reading is so beneficial in our lives is that reading is relaxing, and it is also a way for children to reach out to the world. Reading should be encouraged among children at an early age. This is significant because there are numerous benefits that children can dilate from reading. Aside from mushrooming qualities and senses, reading also reports knowledge and information to their brains. It is no secret that reading increases children’s vocabulary and spelling more than talking or direct teaching. Reading forces us to look at words that we might not have seen or heard in our lives. In fact, languages in children’s books are likely to be more complicated than their average conversation. A large number of children who read are articulate while the others are not, “As a man thinks, so shall he become.” (The Bible)

 


The third reason why reading is so beneficial is that reading improves our thinking process. Reading books require readers to think and imagine about different details in the book such as characters and plot; this provides us to improve our thinking process. Repeating a habit of reading and persuading the brain to be more buoyant and absorb more information will give us a great beneficial. It also obliges readers to focus on what they are reading for long periods. Unlike magazines, internet posts or e-mails that might contain small pieces of information, books tell the whole story. Since the readers must concentrate in order to read, they will improve their concentration, thinking abilities, and plunge them into their brains.

Everyone knows that a person who reads will be successful and a person who doesn’t will either not do so well than others or eventually fail in life. If we want to be known as a profound person instead of being a delinquent one who begrudges the successful person, we must start changing our habits. “No entertainment is so cheap as reading, or any pleasures so lasting.” (Montagu), reading may look very prickly outside but if we actually remove the husk, it is our companion that assists us to go through our livings. It will not only refresh our mind and soul but it will give us a great outlook towards life.