Reading books has the lot of psychological benefits. Those who have a habit of reading are aware of the pleasure and value of reading books then. They know its magic and power that renders knowledge and makes one wiser. When it comes to reading, most of us these days are addicted to reading online blogs, articles, stories and tweets. Reading is helpful for gaining lots of knowledge and information but reading a good book is healthier for our brain and a completely different experience . Reading does wonder for our brains as it is the activity that helps us focus . Reading is the best exercise for your brains .

 As we all are aware that mental fitness is equally important as physical fitness so like our body even mind needs to work out daily to maintain fitness. Reading is important to read a good book at least for a few minutes each day to stretch the brain muscles for healthy functioning .

1)    Books are Your Best Friends: Books really are your best friends as you can rely on them when you are bored, upset, depressed, lonely or annoyed. They will accompany you anytime you want them and enhance your mood. They share with you information and knowledge any time you need. Good books always guide you to the correct path in life. You will never regret the company of a good book .

2)    Books are Your Best Teachers: Not only can good books be your best friend but also the best teacher. Reading good books will give you immense knowledge, information and a completely different experience. Reading will give you a new and better perspective of life. Readingt will teach you new lessons of life .

3)    Great Pleasure: When I read a book, I read it for pleasure. I just indulge myself into reading and experience a whole new world. Once I start reading a book I get so captivated I never want to leave it until I finish. Most of the times it is not possible to finish the book in one sitting but there is always that curiosity until I finish the book. It always gives lot of pleasure to read a good book and cherish it for lifetime .

4)    Books Help You Sleep Better: Reading a book is recommended as one of the best habits to calm down your mind before you go to bed. Reading helps relieve stress. So, instead of using cell phones or watching TV you can always read a good book for a sound sleep .

5)  Communication Skills: Reading improves your vocabulary and develops your communication skills. It helps you learn how to use your language creatively. Not only does it improve your communication but it also makes you a better writer. Good communication is important in every aspect of life .

6)   Develops Critical Thinking: The chief benefit of reading good books is that it develops your critical thinking. The more you read the deeper you understand and process the information. Critical thinking is important in life to manage day to day situations .

7)    Reduces Stress: Reading a good book takes you in a new world and helps you relieve your day to day stress. It has several positive effects on your mind, body and soul. It stimulates your brain muscles and keeps your brain healthy and strong .

Conclusion

Reading books is the most fruitful way to use time. It keeps you occupied and helps you get rid of stress in life. Once you develop the habit of reading you can never get bored. Reading also improves the function of brain and is the best exercise for brain.